--- PAGE 1 ---
Journal of Cluster Computing manuscript No.
(will be inserted by the editor)
Quantifying the Impact of Resource Redundancy on
Smart City System Dependability: A Model-Driven
Approach
Francisco Airton Silva · Iure F´e ·
Francisco Silva · Tuan Anh Nguyen
Received:DDMonthYEAR/Accepted:DDMonthYEAR
Abstract Effective quality management plays a pivotal role in ensuring the
smooth operation of smart city systems, which have significant implications
for safety, accessibility, affordability, and maintainability. Dependability of
autonomoussystemsisofutmostimportance,asachievingsatisfactorylevelsof
availability and reliability poses considerable challenges. Smart cities are char-
acterizedbyinterconnectedsub-architectures,encompassingvehiclemonitoring,
sidewalk monitoring, and building monitoring, all of which need to function
efficiently. Analytical models such as Petri nets, Markov chains, and fault trees
are well-suited for evaluating complex scenarios in the context of smart cities.
This paper presents analytical models that utilize fault tree and Markov chain
techniques to assess the availability and reliability of smart city monitoring
systems. The model is divided into shared and non-shared components, with
non-shared components being specific to certain contextual applications, while
shared components, such as data processing and electrical power, are essential
for all smart city monitoring and management systems. The study underscores
the ease with which the fault tree model can enhance availability by modifying
failure requirements and resources. Case studies provide concrete examples
of how availability improved from 95.3% to 99.8% by varying a configuration
known as ”KooN” in multiple components. This paper takes a comprehensive
approach to evaluating the dependability of smart city architectures and con-
tributes advancements, such as hierarchical modeling, sequential sensitivity
analysis, and the ”KooN” analytic method. These contributions expand the
Francisco Airton Silva (F.A.S.), Iure F´e (I.F.) (corresponding author) are with Federal
UniversityofPiau´ı(UFPI),Picos,Piau´ı,Brazil
E-mail:{faps,iure.fe}@ufpi.edu.br
FranciscoSilva(F.S.)iswith
FederalUniversityofMaranha˜o-BrazilE-mail:fssilva@lsdi.ufma.br
TuanAnhNguyen(T.A.N.)iswith
KonkukUniversity-SouthKoreaE-mail:anhnt2407@konkuk.ac.kr
--- PAGE 2 ---
2 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
existing knowledge and methodologies in smart city dependability analysis.
Moreover, this work aims to serve as a practical tool to assist smart city
managers in optimizing their proposals. All modeling aspects and parameters
are detailed thoroughly to enable effective implementation of the proposed
approach by anyone using it.
Keywords Quality management, smart city, dependability, fault tree, Markov
chain, resource redundancy
1 Introduction
Smart cities have emerged as a prominent initiative by governments worldwide
to make cities more navigable and livable, as evidenced by numerous ongoing
projectsinthepublicandprivatesectors[14,17].Giventheprojectedgrowthof
theworldpopulationbyover10%inthenext30years[50],qualitymanagement
is of utmost importance in the development and management of smart cities.
Countriesaroundtheglobearestrivingtoequiptheircitiestoeffectivelyhandle
such growth [2]. While cities are hubs of human and economic activity, they
also present a plethora of challenges that can become increasingly difficult to
solve as they grow in size and complexity. Disparities in cities, particularly
in more developed areas, can have negative consequences that may outweigh
their positive aspects if not addressed effectively. Urban regions must manage
their growth while promoting economic competitiveness, social cohesion, and
sustainability.
Theconceptofasmartcityencompassesalocalentity,suchasacity,region,
orsmalllocality,thatadoptsaholisticapproachinemployinginformationtech-
nologies with real-time analysis to promote sustainable economic development
[28]. The implementation of a smart city entails addressing a myriad of chal-
lenges in diverse areas, including healthcare, education, power, transportation,
waste management, unemployment, and cyber-security [48]. The fundamental
premise of a smart city rests on the utilization of user-friendly information
and communication technologies specifically designed for urban areas by major
enterprises. This subject matter has garnered substantial attention from both
academia and practitioners, emerging as a robust research domain.
Numerouscitiesacrosstheworldareactivelypursuingthegoalofbecoming
”smarter” by leveraging Information and Communication Technology (ICT) to
enhancevariousaspectsofcityoperationsandmanagement[29].Notably,cities
such as Singapore, Helsinki, and Zurich have been acknowledged as some of
the world’s leading smart cities in the 2020 Smart City Index [18]. These cities
are subject to stringent system requirements, given that human lives are often
at stake in multiple facets of a smart city. For instance, in the context of smart
traffic,itisimperativeforallintelligenttrafficlightstofunctionoptimallywith
maximum availability and reliability to prevent catastrophic failures in densely
populated urban centers.
--- PAGE 3 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 3
Dependability pertains to a system’s ability to consistently and accurately
deliver a service, considering the potential failure of one or more system
components that may impede its ability to provide the intended service. As
such, reliability is a crucial attribute of dependability, denoting the probability
ofasystemoperatingwithoutfailureoveraspecifiedperiodoftime[45].Another
vitalaspectofdependabilityisavailability,whichquantifiestheprobabilityofa
systemcontinuingtofunctiondespitetheoccurrenceoffailuresandsubsequent
repairs [40].
Ensuring the reliability and availability of highly complex systems poses
a formidable challenge. As the number of components in a system increases,
predicting its behavior becomes more intricate. Smart cities, for instance,
encompass intricate computational architectures that comprise multiple sub-
architectures, such as smart buildings, vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs),
andsmartsurveillance.Eachofthesesub-architecturesencompassesitsownset
of sub-components, which cannot be analyzed in isolation. A system is deemed
available only when all of its sub-components are functional. Consequently,
for a smart city to be considered reliable and available, the smart building,
VANET, and smart surveillance systems must all operate seamlessly. It is
noteworthy that conducting real-world experiments to assess the dependability
of smart cities, which typically involve real-time systems, may not always be
feasible.
Previous research has not comprehensively addressed the crucial aspect of
dependability in the context of smart cities, specifically in analyzing multiple
sub-architectures concurrently. Most studies have focused on smart buildings,
examining automation mechanisms and Internet of Things (IoT) sensor com-
munication [24, 1, 4, 42, 49]. Only one paper has explored the topic of smart
surveillance [19]. In this study, Gonc¸alves et al. [19] developed stochastic Petri
net models for a surveillance monitoring system, analyzing several parameters
to achieve the highest level of dependability. Furthermore, only four papers
have investigated dependability in the context of vehicular ad-hoc networks
(VANETs) [39, 15, 41, 5]. For instance, Qi et al. [39] utilized Time Petri nets
(TPN) and Synchronized Petri nets (SPNs) to design a traffic control sys-
tem (ITCS) for intersections, addressing accidents and providing emergency
response to prevent further accidents.
Evaluating the dependability of smart cities can be complex and costly,
particularlyinreal-worldenvironmentswhereadiverserangeofcomponentsand
significantinfrastructurearerequired.Additionally,conductingrealexperiments
inactualenvironmentscanhavenegativeimpactsonlocalcitizens.Toovercome
these challenges, formal mathematical models such as queue networks, Markov
chains, and Petri nets can be utilized at an early design stage or to evaluate
complex configurations in an operating system.
Therefore, the novelty of this work stands out due to its unique approach
inassessingthedependabilityofsmartcityarchitectures,whichcombines
fault tree models and Markov chains, adopts a hierarchical modeling
strategy, employs KooN gates, and introduces a novel method called
sequential sensitivity analysis.
--- PAGE 4 ---
4 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
This study contributes to the advancement of modeling and analysis of
smart city systems in the following ways specifically:
– Theutilizationoffaulttree(FT)andMarkovchainmodelingtoevaluatethe
dependability of complex smart city architectures is proposed. FT analysis,
a well-established and widely-used technique for evaluating system depend-
ability,isemployed[23].Markovchains,withtheirmathematicalproperties,
are used in conjunction with FT to model component dependencies [7].
– A hierarchical modeling approach is proposed to represent and calculate
the availability and reliability of a smart city control system, using stan-
dard macro components such as smart buildings, VANETs, and smart
surveillance.
– Advancedsensitivityanalysis,knownassequentialsensitivityanalysis(SSA),
is conducted to identify the most impactful components in multiple base
model updates.
– Case studies are presented to investigate the impact of changing failure
requirements and scalability on availability and reliability metrics.
Thestructureoftheremainingsectionsinthispaperisasfollows:Section2
discusses related works. Section 3 presents the background. Section 4 presents
the methodology. Section 5 provides an overview of the architecture of the
modeledsystem.Section6presentstheproposedFTmodels,theirfunctionality,
and key characteristics. Section 7 presents the results of three case studies,
serving as a practical guide for system administrators. Finally, Section 8
concludes the paper and highlights potential areas for future research.
2 Related Work
In this section, a comprehensive literature review pertaining to the proposed
work is presented, with a specific focus on the state-of-the-art research in the
fieldofsmartcities.Theselectioncriteriaforrelatedworksprimarilyconsidered
their relevance to smart cities, as well as their utilization of analytical models.
In particular, works that specifically addressed architectural issues related
to computational aspects, particularly data processing, were prioritized. To
further refine the selection, a final filtering process was conducted to exclude
articles that explored topics such as urban mobility [10] and delivery logistics
[6], which were not directly pertinent to the technological challenges addressed
in this work. The initial search string employed on Google Scholar was as
follows: ”smart AND (city OR cities OR building OR surveillance OR vanet)
AND (Markov OR Petri net OR fault tree OR RBD OR queue)”.
Inthecontextofthereviewedliterature,themajorityoftheworksidentified
were focused on the theme of smart buildings. Kharchenko et al. [24] presented
acontrolsystemforsmartbuildingsthatincorporatesathree-levelarchitecture
forthe building automationsystem,encompassing FPGA,communication,and
management components. Abate et al. [1] applied quantitative model checking
to analyze the Fault Maintenance Tree (FMT) of a Heating, Ventilation, and
--- PAGE 5 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 5
Air-Conditioning (HVAC) unit in a smart building. Specifically, they modeled
the FMT using continuous-time Markov chains and priced time automata.
Araujo et al. [4] proposed a modeling strategy based on hierarchical models
using Stochastic Petri Net (SPN) and Reliability Block Diagram (RBD) to
evaluate dependability in an IoT system, utilizing a case study of a smart
building scenario. Santos et al. [42] proposed a queuing network-based message
exchange architecture to evaluate the performance of an intelligent building
infrastructureassociatedwithmultipleprocessinglayers,includingedgeandfog
computing.Theyconsideredabuildingwithmultiplefloorsandrooms,equipped
with sensors and edge devices. Victor et al. [49] proposed a modeling approach
based on stochastic Petri nets (SPN) for the quantification of performability in
domotics architectures. The SPN performability models were developed based
on the architecture of a home automation system that incorporates several
IoT sensors, enabling the evaluation of trade-offs between performance and
availability.
In the context of smart hospitals, three works were analyzed. Nguyen et al.
[36]proposedacomprehensiveperformabilitySRNmodelforanedge/fog-based
Medical Information System (MIS) to quantify medical data transactions and
services in local hospitals or medical centers. The model incorporated different
failure modes of fog nodes and their virtual machines (VMs) under the imple-
mentation of fail-over mechanisms. Rodrigues et al. [40] employed analytical
modelstoassesstheperformanceandavailabilityofintelligenthospitalsystems
without the need for real equipment investment. They proposed two Stochastic
Petri Net models to represent intelligent hospital architectures. Silva et al. [46]
proposed an M/M/c/K queuing network model for the performance evaluation
of an Internet of Healthcare Things (IoHT) infrastructure in conjunction with
a three-layer cloud/fog/edge computing continuum. The model considered the
life cycle of medical data from body-attached IoT sensors in the edge layer to
local clients through the fog layer and remote clients through the cloud layer.
Onlyonepublicationtodatehasinvestigatedthetopicofsmartsurveillance,
as elucidated in the study conducted by Gon¸calves et al. [19]. The authors
developed stochastic Petri net models to analyze the dependability of a surveil-
lance monitoring system, by manipulating various parameters to obtain the
optimallevelofreliabilityandavailability.Thedependabilityofthesystemwas
comprehensively assessed, with a particular focus on reliability and availability
as the main metrics of interest.
Four scholarly papers have delved into the realm of Vehicular Ad-hoc
Networks (VANETs). Qi et al. [39] employed Time Petri nets (TPN) and
Synchronized Petri nets (SPNs) to devise a traffic control system for inter-
sections, capable of managing accidents and providing emergency response
while preventing further accidents. The proposed system incorporated camera
surveillance (CSS) and traffic light control (TLCS) components, which were
simulated using SPNs and TPN.
Cesarioetal.[15]introduceda”local”synchronizationapproachforVANETs,
whereby computation pertaining to a specific region is performed based on
information received from a subset of neighboring regions. This approach of-
--- PAGE 6 ---
6 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
fers significant benefits, including reduced computation time, real-time model
extraction, and improved support for local decisions.
Rodrigues et al. [41] presented a performance evaluation of a cooperative
smart traffic light using a stochastic Petri net (SPN) model. The proposed
model enabled the calculation of metrics such as mean response time, resource
utilization, and the number of discarded requests. Three case studies were
presented to illustrate the utility of the model.
In a study by Araujo et al. [5], stochastic Petri nets (SPNs) and reliability
blockdiagrams(RBD)wereemployedtoassesstheavailabilityandreliabilityof
avehicularcloudcomputingarchitecturewithmultipleRoadsideUnits(RSUs).
Two sensitivity analyses were conducted to identify the components of the
model with the most significant impact.
In our research article, we present a novel approach for evaluating the
availability and reliability of a complex smart city system, which encompasses
three interconnected sub-architectures: smart building, smart surveillance, and
VANETs.Ourmodelsaredevelopedusingacombinationoffaulttree(FT)and
Markovchains,utilizingahierarchicalmodelingstrategy.Thisapproachenables
thesimplificationofmacro-componentsusingFT,whilealsofacilitatingdetailed
analysis of sub-components at a granular level. Additionally, we introduce a
uniquemethodcalledsequentialsensitivityanalysis(SSA),whichallowsforthe
optimization of evaluated metrics by identifying the most critical components
of the system. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to employ
such a strategy. Furthermore, our work is distinguished by the utilization of
KooN gates, a distinctive feature inherent to fault tree models, to assess the
availability of specific resources and explore diverse failure requirements.
Our proposal places a significant emphasis on achieving a high level of
modeling granularity in order to effectively encompass three intricate contexts.
However, existing literature has commonly adopted the Petri net approach as
a prevailing methodology in this domain, as evidenced by the works of Araujo
et al. [4], Victor et al. [49], Nguyen et al. [36], Rodrigues et al. [40], Gonccalves
et al. [19], and Qi et al. [39].
Araujo et al. [4] have proposed a modeling strategy based on hierarchical
models that utilize Stochastic Petri Net (SPN) and Reliability Block Diagram
(RBD) techniques to evaluate the dependability of an IoT system, with a
specific case study focused on a smart building scenario. Victor et al. [49]
have put forth a modeling approach that employs stochastic Petri nets (SPN)
to quantify the performability of domotics architectures, including various
IoT sensors/devices, in order to evaluate trade-offs between performance and
availability of home automation services. Nguyen et al. [36] have presented
a comprehensive performability Stochastic Reward Net (SRN) model for an
edge/fog-basedmedicalinformationsystem,aimedatquantifyingtheperforma-
bility of medical data transactions and services in local hospitals or medical
centers.
In addition, Rodrigues et al. [40] have utilized analytical models to assess
the performance and availability of intelligent hospital systems, without the
need for physical equipment, by proposing two Stochastic Petri Net models to
--- PAGE 7 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 7
representintelligenthospitalarchitectures.Gonccalvesetal.[19]havedeveloped
Stochastic Petri Net models for surveillance monitoring systems, where they
variedmultipleparameterstoachievethehighestdependability,withreliability
and availability being the primary metrics of interest. Lastly, Qi et al. [39]
have employed Time Petri Nets (TPNs) and Synchronized Petri Nets (SPNs)
to design a traffic control system (ITCS) for intersections, specifically aimed at
dealingwithaccidents,providingemergencyresponse,andpreventingadditional
accidents from occurring.
Cesario et al. [15] address the challenge of extracting mobility patterns in
an urban computing scenario using stochastic Petri nets (SPN). The authors
propose and analyze a ”local” synchronization approach, wherein computation
for a specific region is performed based on information received from a subset
of neighboring regions. Rodrigues et al. [41] present a performance evaluation
of a cooperative smart traffic light using an SPN model. The proposed model
is capable of calculating the mean response time, resource utilization, and the
number of discarded requests. Araujo et al. [5] utilize SPNs and reliability
block diagrams (RBD) to assess the availability and reliability of a vehicular
cloudcomputing(VCC)architecturewithmultipleroadsideunits(RSUs).Two
sensitivity analyses were conducted to identify the model components that
have the most significant impact.
Another related context to the current topic in smart cities is railway
transportation, in which requires high availability, reliability and security. Two
papers applied modelling mechanisms in this context, Lin et al. [30] and Liu et
al. [31]. Lin et al. [30] proposed an advanced finite-state Markov chain channel
model for high-speed railway, which incorporates the impacts of moving speed
onthetemporalchannelstatisticalcharacteristic.Theclosed-formexpressionsof
state transition probabilities between channel states are derived. The accuracy
of the proposed FSMC channel model is validated via extensive measurements
conducted on the Zhengzhou-Xi’an HSR line in China. Liu et al. [31] have
focusedonemployingthefaulttreeanalysismethodcombinedwithquantitative
analysistoinvestigatehigh-speedrailwayaccidents.Specifically,byestablishing
a fault tree logic diagram based on a high-speed railway accident, an in-depth
fault tree analysis combined with quantitative analysis is given to present a
more comprehensive view of the accident.
Table 1 provides a comparison of related works in the field of smart city
systems.Ourproposedmodelstandsoutduetoitsuniqueapproachinassessing
the dependability of smart city architectures, which combines fault tree models
and Markov chains, adopts a hierarchical modeling strategy, employs KooN
gates, and introduces a novel method called sequential sensitivity analysis.
--- PAGE 8 ---
8 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Table 1: Related Works.
Paper Context Model Metrics Hierarchical Sequential KooN
Types Modeling Sensitivity Anal-
Analysis isys
[24] Smart Markov Security and × × ×
building chain availability
[1] Smart Fault Availability, ✓ × ×
building tree and reliability and
Markov cost
chain
[4] Smart Petri Availability ✓ × ×
building net and
RBD
[42] Smart Queueing MRT,resource × × ×
building network utilization,
flow rate, dis-
card rate, and
the number of
messages
[49] Smart Petrinet Availability × × ×
building and perfor-
mance
[36] Smart Petrinet Availability × × ×
hospital and perfor-
mance
[40] Smart Petrinet MRT,resource × × ×
hospital utilization,and
discardrate
[46] Smart Queueing MRT, utiliza- × × ×
hospital Network tion, through-
put,numberof
messagese,and
droprate
[19] Smart Petrinet Availability × × ×
surveil- andreliability
lance
[39] VANETs Petrinet Numberoftraf- × × ×
ficaccidentpre-
diction
[15] VANETs Petrinet Computational × × ×
time
[41] VANETs Petrinet MRT,resource × × ×
utilization,and
the number
of requests
discards
[5] VANETs Petri Availability × × ×
net and andreliability
RBD
This Smart Fault Availability ✓ ✓ ✓
work build- tree and andreliability
ing, Markov
smart chain
surveil-
lance
and
VANETs
While the existing literature has predominantly adopted the Petri net
approach, our proposal offers a more comprehensive and holistic perspective
on the dependability of smart city architectures. In future research, we plan to
investigate the impact of different distribution types on the results, establish
--- PAGE 9 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 9
a more realistic baseline scenario, conduct performance analysis to evaluate
the impact of availability on response time and throughput, and incorporate
additional components such as onboard units of vehicles in vehicular ad hoc
networks (VANETs) to further enhance the realism of our model. The field of
InternetofThings(IoT)anddependabilityhasbeenenrichedbyseveralnotable
studies,includingSilvaetal.[47],Ojieetal.[37],Andradeetal.[3],andBoano
et al. [8]. Silva et al. [47] propose a tool for evaluating the dependability of IoT
applications, considering both hardware faults and permanent link faults.
Similarly, Ojie et al. [37] explore dependability issues in IoT applications
throughacomprehensiveanalysisofexistingliteratureandconceptualizationof
dependabilityrequirements,regardlessofthesizeanddomainoftheapplications.
Andradeetal.[3]presentaPetrinet-basedapproachformodelingandanalyzing
disasterrecovery(DR)solutionsforIoTinfrastructures.Theirproposedmodels
enable assessment of important DR measures such as system availability, cost,
and recovery time objective, with a real-world healthcare IoT system used
as a case study. Boano et al. [8] provide methods and tools for predicting,
guaranteeing, and enhancing the dependability of IoT systems. They highlight
contributions in dependable wireless networking and present a cost-effective
solution for ensuring IoT applications meet specific performance requirements
despitechallengesposedbylow-powerwirelessnetworksandtheirenvironments.
It is noteworthy that these studies focus on specific aspects of networking,
which may differ from the broad perspective of our proposal in modeling smart
city systems.
3 Background
This section presents some concepts regarding modeling mechanisms.
3.1 Modelling with Fault Tree
InaHierarchicalFaultTree(HFT)analysis,thesystemunderstudyismodeled
as a tree-like structure, with the top-level representing the overall system
failure and lower levels representing the failures of individual components
that contribute to the overall system failure. Fault Tree Analysis (FTA) is a
method for modeling the top-down failure behavior of a system by identifying
and analyzing the combinations of basic events that can lead to a specific
top event, such as system failure. The basic events are typically low-level
components or subsystems that can fail, while the top event represents the
overall system failure. In an HFT, the top-level represents the system-level
failure and each lower level represents a more detailed failure mode. Each level
of the fault tree is constructed using basic events, which are the lowest level
failure modes, and gates, which are logical operators that combine the basic
events. The mathematical representation of a fault tree is a Boolean function,
represented by a set of Boolean equations. The probability of the top event
--- PAGE 10 ---
10 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
can be calculated by using the probability of the basic events and the logical
operators connecting them. Fault Tree Analysis (FTA) is a technique used
to identify and assess potential failure modes and their causes in a system.
It is often used in conjunction with a Reliability Block Diagram (RBD) to
identify the cause-and-effect relationships between different components and
subsystemsinasystem.AFaultTreeisagraphicalrepresentationofthelogical
relationships between the various failure events that can lead to a specific top
event, such as system failure. The basic building blocks of a Fault Tree are the
basic events, which represent a single failure or malfunction of a component,
and the gates, which represent the logical relationships between the events.
The probability of the top-level system failure, Pr(S), can be calculated using
the following equation:
(cid:89)
Pr(S)=1−Pr(S′)=1− (1−Pr(E )) (1)
i
Where Pr(S′) is the probability of the system not failing, Pr(E ) is the
i
probability of a basic event i, and the product is taken over all basic events.
In summary, Fault Tree Analysis and Markov Chain are two methodologies
formodelingthedependabilityofsystems.WhileFTAisusedformodelingtop-
downfailurebehavior,MCisusedformodelingthetime-dependentbehaviorof
a system. Both methodologies can be used in hierarchical manner to represent
thesystembehaviorinmoredetail.CombiningtheuseoffaulttreeandMarkov
chain analysis in a hierarchical manner allows for a more detailed and accurate
assessment of system dependability and performance.
Let X be a random variable which represents the lifetime of a device. That
is, if the device is turned on at time zero, X would represent the time at which
the device fails. The reliability function of the device, RX (t), is simply the
probability that the device is still functioning at time t:
Rx(t)=Pr(X >t) (2)
Where R(t) is the reliability of the system at time t, and Pr(failure) is
the probability of failure at time t. Additionally, we would like to note that
the reliability of a system can also be represented by the mean time between
failures (MTBF) or the mean time to failure (MTTF). MTBF is calculated as
the total operating time of a system divided by the number of failures, while
MTTF is calculated as the reciprocal of the failure rate. These formulas are as
follows:
Total Operating Time
MTBF =
Number of Failures
(3)
1
MTTF =
Failure Rate
Availability (A) is a measure of the system’s ability to perform its in-
tended function when required. It is typically expressed as a percentage and is
calculated using the formula:
--- PAGE 11 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 11
uptime
A= ×100% (4)
uptime+downtime
Where uptime is the total time the system is functioning as intended and
downtime is the total time the system is not functioning as intended. This
formulacan alsobe expressedin termsof MeanTime Between Failure(MTBF)
and Mean Time To Repair (MTTR) as:
MTBF
A= (5)
(MTBF +MTTR)
In this equation, MTBF represents the average time between failures and
MTTRrepresentstheaveragetimerequiredtorepairthesystemafterafailure.
It’s also important to note that the availability of a system can be affected
by factors such as concurrent failures, maintenance, and scheduled downtimes,
which should be considered when calculating availability.
3.2 Modelling with Markov Chain
Markov models are the fundamental building blocks upon which many quanti-
tative analytical performance techniques are built [26, 33]. Such models may
be used to represent the interactions between various system components, for
both descriptive and predictive purposes [35]. Markov models have been in use
intensively in performance and dependability modeling since around the fifties
[13]. Besides computer science, the range of applications for Markov models
is very extensive. Economics, meteorology, physics, chemistry and telecommu-
nications are some examples of fields which found in this kind of stochastic1
modeling a good approach to address various problems.
A Markov model can be described as a state-space diagram associated
to a Markov process, which constitutes a subclass of stochastic processes. A
definition of stochastic process is presented: A stochastic process is a family of
random variables {X :t∈T} where each random variable X is indexed by
t t
parametert∈T,whichisusuallycalledthetimeparameterifT ⊂R =[0,∞),
+
i.e.,Tisinthesetofnon-negativerealnumbers.Thesetofallpossiblevaluesof
X (for each t∈T) is known as the state space S of the stochastic process [9].
t
Let Pr{k} be the probability of a given event k occurs. A Markov process
(cid:8) (cid:9)
is a stochastic process in which Pr X ≤s depends only on the last
tn+1 i+1
previous value X , for all t > t > t > ··· > t = 0, and all s ∈ S.
tn n+1 n n−1 0 i
This is the so-called Markov property [20], which, in plain words, means that
the future evolution of the Markov process is totally described by the current
state, and is independent of past states [20].
In this work, there is only interest on discrete (countable) state space
Markov models, also known as Markov chains, which are distinguished in two
classes: Discrete Time Markov Chains (DTMCs) and Continuous Time Markov
1 Stochasticreferstosomethingwhichinvolvesorcontainsarandomvariableorvariables
--- PAGE 12 ---
12 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Chains (CTMCs) [25]. In DTMCs, the transitions between states can only take
place at known intervals, that is, step-by-step. Systems where transitions only
occur in a daily basis, or following a strict discrete clock are well represented
by DTMCs. If state transitions may occur at arbitrary (continuous) instants of
time,theMarkovchainisaCTMC.TheMarkovpropertyimpliesthatthetime
of transitions is driven by a memoryless distribution [9]. In the case of DTMC,
the geometric distribution is the only discrete time distribution that presents
the memoryless property. In the case of CTMC, the exponential distribution is
used.
Markov chains can be represented as a directed graph with labeled transi-
tions, indicating the probability or rate at which such transitions occur. When
dealing with CTMCs, such as the availability model of Figure 1, transitions
occur with a rate, instead of a probability, due to the continuous nature of
this kind of model. The CTMC is represented through its transition matrix,
often referenced as infinitesimal generator matrix. Considering the CTMC
availability model of Figure 1, the rates are measured in failures per second,
repairs per second, and detections per second. The generator matrix Q is
(cid:80)
composed by components q and q , where i ̸= j and q = −q . Using
ii ij ij ii
the availability model that was just mentioned, considering a state-space S =
{Up,Down,Repair} = {0,1,2} the Q matrix is:
   
q q q −0.0010.001 0
00 01 02
Q=q 10 q 11 q 12= 0 −2 2 
q q q 0.2 0 −0.2
20 21 22
Up
0.2 0.001
Repair Down
2
Fig. 1: Simple CTMC
Equation 6 and the system of Equations 7 describe the computation of
the state probability vector, respectively for transient (i.e., time-dependent)
analysis, and steady-state (i.e., stationary) analysis. From the state probability
vector, nearly all other metrics can be derived, depending on the system that
is represented.
π′(t)=π(t)Q, given π(0) (6)
--- PAGE 13 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 13
(cid:88)
πQ=0, π =1 (7)
i
i∈S
Detailedexplanationsabouthowtoobtaintheseequationsmaybefoundin
[21,9].ForallkindsofanalysisusingMarkovchains,animportantaspectmust
be kept in mind: the exponential distribution of transition rates. The behavior
of events in many computer systems may be fit better by other probability
distributions, but in some of these situations the exponential distribution is
considered an acceptable approximation, enabling the use of Markov models.
It is also possible to adapt transition in Markov chains to represent other
distributions by means of phase approximation, as shown in [33]. The use of
such technique allows the modeling of events described by distributions such
as Weibull, Erlang, Cox, hypoexponential, and hyperexponential.
4 Methodology
This section presents the methodology employed in this study, outlining the
stepstakentoimprovetheavailabilityandreliabilityofthesystemunderexam-
ination. The primary objective of this section is to facilitate future replication
of the methodology, enabling the enhancement of dependability for systems
with similar physical and logical structures. The methodology describes the
processes used in constructing the proposed environment, including the evalua-
tion and construction of models of the infrastructure used by the system, as
well as the proposal of alternative structures aimed at increasing the system’s
dependability. Figure 2 provides a visual representation of the steps in the
proposed methodology, with the processes depicted as macro-activities, which
are described in detail below.
System Understanding. This process involves understanding the struc-
ture of the system, including the study of the main physical and logical
components, their basic functionalities, and the existing components in the
physical and virtual layers, among other characteristics of the environment.
The evaluated system was designed based on information from the literature.
The decision on which macro-components to include was made first. The three
macro-components (VANET, Smart Building and Surveillance) were chosen
as they are common in many works related to smart cities [34, 43, 40, 19, 5].
Additionally, the availability of parameters to feed the entire proposed model
was considered to be an important factor. Architecture Design. Before
actually modeling the system, it is necessary to define the specific components
and how they relate to one another. This step involves determining the number
of sub-components each macro-component has and defining the failure require-
ments of the system. System Modeling. The main objective of this process
is to construct a model that accurately represents the studied environment,
classified as a baseline, allowing for more precise analysis of the environment
and proposals for improvements in dependability. The proposed models were
designed and evaluated using the Mercury [44] tool. Two types of models are
--- PAGE 14 ---
14 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
System Architecture System
Understanding Design Modeling
Base Model Sensitivity Model
Configuration Analysis Upgrade
No It has
Improved
enough?
Yes
Fig. 2: Modelling and Analysis Methodology Organized in Macro-Activities.
proposed in this work: fault tree and Markov chains. In this step, for example,
the gates of the fault tree were specified. Base Model Configuration. In
this step, the model receives the values of the availability parameters of each of
the chosen components, as well as information on which components will have
redundancy and the number of redundant elements (referred to as KooN).
Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivity analysis process aims to identify
the components that can be adjusted in order to increase the dependability
of the environment. This activity aims to adjust the environment with the
fewest possible changes, allowing for more assertive changes. In this work,
the new concept of sequential sensitivity analysis (SSA) is employed. SSA
involves not only one, but multiple executions of sensitivity analysis, allowing
for even more effective upgrades in the designed models. Model Upgrade.
The main objective of this macro-activity is to construct a model with better
dependability results for the studied environment. This construction is linked
to the sensitivity list, taking as input one or more components that will be
improved. Several techniques are used to improve availability and reliability.
In this work, changes in gates (in fault trees) and changes in the structure of
Markov chains are proposed.
In this work, a specific scenario of simple infrastructure and manual config-
urations was considered for modeling and analyzing the dependability of such
systems. The proposed methodologies provide a clear and easy-to-understand
--- PAGE 15 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 15
approach for this specific scenario. However, it is important to note that
there are more advanced techniques, such as the automatic build of mul-
tiple/hierarchical formalism, that have been proposed in the literature for
modeling and analyzing more complex systems. It should be noted that the
model does not include dynamic aspects of the network, and the mean time to
failures (MTTF) and mean time to recovery (MTTR) of all components are
calculated from more detailed sub-architectures.
For example, the cloud component can have near infinite possibilities of
granularity. While it was not the goal of this work to detail such components,
the proposed model can still provide a reasonably big picture of the modelled
system. It is worth mentioning that the literature does not present a modelling
approach combining distinct contexts as presented in this work. Focusing on a
specific context allows for a more accurate representation of network, power
source, mobility, etc. In this sense, the proposed model can be considered as a
complementary approach that can be used in specific scenarios, rather than a
replacement for more advanced techniques.
5 Architecture
Figure 3 presents an overview of a computer systems cluster in a smart city.
The architecture is designed to separate and emphasize three crucial sub-
architectures: Smart Surveillance, VANETs, and Smart Building. Each of the
sub-architectures has distinct hardware and software requirements. At the core
of the architecture, elements that are shared by the three sub-architectures are
highlighted. The following sections will provide a detailed description of the
four macro architectural components.
5.1 Smart Surveillance
The use of Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) has seen a significant increase
in the past two decades, particularly following the 9/11 attacks. The United
Kingdom, considered the most monitored country in the world, has approxi-
mately4millionsurveillancecameras,withanestimated300camerascapturing
footage of a London resident daily [27]. These cameras cover both public and
private areas, including downtown areas, airports, and shopping malls. This
growth is driven by two factors: the decrease in the cost of CCTV systems
and the increasing demand for security. The purpose of an intelligent video
surveillance system is to detect anomalies, or behavior that does not conform
toanormalscenebehaviorspecification.Smartsurveillanceplaysanimportant
role in anomaly detection by extracting, representing, and interpreting visual
information for learning and classifying behavior. There have been numerous
workspublishedintheareaofintelligentsurveillance,withsomestudiesaiming
to determine the level of system supervision, extracting characteristics that
describe the behavior of different classes of objects inthe scene, and generating
--- PAGE 16 ---
16 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
VANETs
RSU RSU
Camera
RSU
Camera
Network
Edge
Power
Cloud Switch
Grid
Shared
Resources
Cell
Tower
Sensors Routers
Camera
Smart Smart
Surveillance Building
Fig. 3: Smart City Systems Architecture.
a compact representation of the extracted characteristics. All these practical
applications require high computational capacity for processing, storage, and
communication.
To effectively cover a large city with a multi-camera scenario (fixed and
mobile), a mobile network capable of handling the large amount of data is
required. In addition to providing characteristics such as broadband, reliability,
latency, and mobility superior to previous networks, it must also be highly
adaptable. Such a network must be fast, responsive, and stable, which are
characteristicsofferedby5G.5Gcanadapttofluctuationsintraffic,dynamically
directing services, such as a higher data transfer rate, if a specific application
or user requires it. Therefore, the smart surveillance sub-architecture includes
a set of high-performance cameras and one or more transmission towers. The
transmission towers (cell towers) then communicate with centralized edge and
cloud resources.
5.2 VANETs
The increase in population concentration in urban centers, particularly in large
metropolitan regions, and the resulting mobility linked to the increased use of
motor vehicles have negative impacts on society. These factors contribute to
--- PAGE 17 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 17
poorqualityoflifefordriversandpedestrians,aswellasenvironmentaldamage
associated with carbon dioxide emissions and economic losses. Congestion is
one of the most severe issues in large cities worldwide. There is significant
research being conducted to address this problem, and one promising approach
is smart mobility, which is a domain of smart cities. The main idea behind
smart mobility is the use of Information and Communication Technologies
(ICT)toenhancetheuseoftransitinfrastructureincities.Manysmartmobility
initiatives are already in place, such as VANETs networks.
Vehicle networks allow for the exchange of information between vehicles
(V2V - Vehicle-to-Vehicle communication) and between vehicles and infras-
tructure located on the side of the roads (V2I - Vehicle-to-Infrastructure
communication), with the possibility of utilizing both types of communications
on the same network (V2X architecture). Vehicular networks have unique char-
acteristics that present challenges in communication between vehicles, such as
highnodemobilityandthepotentialforhighratesofpacketlossduetonetwork
congestion. Road Side Units (RSUs) are communication base stations in the
vicinity of roads and highways that communicate with vehicles. These RSUs
must communicate directly with remote resources such as edge servers and
cloud computing services. Therefore, in the present architecture, we consider
a set of RSUs that must be fully operational for the sub-architecture to be
considered in an active state.
5.3 Smart Building
The Internet of Things (IoT) has great potential for use in a variety of ap-
plications, including commerce, industry, and education. IoT devices can be
used, for example, to automate activities in smart homes. Identifying abnormal
behavior in a monitored environment using IoT has proven to be very useful
in residential settings. Historically, smart homes were primarily used to control
environmental systems such as lighting and heating. However, the use of IoT
has allowed for all electrical components in a home to be connected to a single
system. A smart home can provide context-based services to homeowners using
sensorsandothertechnologies.Fromtheconceptofsmarthomes,IoThasbeen
extended to the context of smart buildings. Due to their size and complexity,
buildingsrequiremoresophisticatedcomputinginfrastructuresandpreparation
to meet the high demand for data generation. Energy consumption is a major
concerninsmartbuildingresourcemanagement.Intelligentenergymanagement
of a building can play a crucial role in addressing energy consumption, which
has a significant impact on the environment. Most current IoT sensors must
be installed throughout the building to collect data, which is then processed
locally and remotely (edge/cloud). In the present work, we consider that each
building environment (floor) has one or more routers, and the entire building
has a switch device to forward data to the external environment.
--- PAGE 18 ---
18 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
5.4 Shared Resources
The proposed architecture for a smart city includes four shared components:
power grid, cloud, edge, and network. These components are essential for the
functioning of the smart city’s three sub-architectures: Smart Surveillance,
VANETs, and Smart Building. The power grid supplies electrical power for
all devices, while the network connects the sub-architectures to the edge and
cloud components. The edge and cloud play a crucial role in the system, with
the edge providing faster information processing and the cloud handling more
complex processing and storage for backup. It is important to note that these
four shared components, along with the three sub-architectures, are of equal
importance for the dependability of the overall smart city system. However,
care must be taken to ensure proper consideration of their individual roles and
effects on dependability.
6 Model
Figure 4 presents the fault tree model proposed in this work.
Weobservetwometricsinthispaper:availabilityandreliability.Availability
is the ability of a component to be in a functional state to perform a required
function. Reliability is the ability of the equipment to satisfactorily perform a
givenfunctionduringaspecifictime.[32]Allthemodelsandrespectivesolutions
were performed using the modelling tool Mercury [44]. We tried to design a
model well aligned with the architecture described in the previous section. The
primary gate is an OR gate. For the model root (smart city system) to fail, all
shared,ornon-sharedcomponentsmustfail.Forunsharedresourcestofail,one
of the following components must fail: surveillance, smart building, or VANET.
In the proposed architecture, the cameras (CAs) or the tower (TO) are
critical components for the surveillance sub-architecture. The failure of these
components can cause the entire sub-architecture to fail. To account for this, a
new type of gate, known as K out of N (KooN) gate, is introduced. The KooN
gate is a practical tool for modeling component dependencies, where K out of
N items must fail for the component to fail. For example, in the Figure 5, if
there are five cameras in total and the model states "3 out of 5 cameras",
the component will only fail if three or more cameras fail. The proposed model
includesfiveKooN gatesthatwerestrategicallyplacedto accuratelyreflectthe
reality of modern cities. However, some simplifications were made to facilitate
data manipulation. For example, the model assumes that there is only one
tower in the surveillance module, as it is typically sufficient for coverage in city
centers. The use of KooN gates also considered the likelihood of components
having a shorter time to failure.
The smart building component comprises three sub-components: sensors
(SS),routers(RTs),andaswitch(ST).Whileotherphysicaldevicescouldhave
been broken down, such as actuators, we aim to simplify the architecture by
focusing on more commonly adopted components. A K-out-of-N (KooN) gate
--- PAGE 19 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 19
Smart City
Failure
OR
Unshared Shared
Resources Resources
OR OR
Surveillance Smart Building VANET Edge Server HW Cloud Network Power Grid
OR OR OR
KooN
CAs TO SSs RTs ST RSUs HW OS DK CTs
KooN KooN KooN KooN
CCAA SS RT CT
Fig. 4: Smart City Systems Fault Tree Model.
is applied for sensors and routers to account for the grouping of devices within
a building. For example, in a smart hospital, sensors are typically organized
by floor, with a specific number of sensors communicating with a router on
each floor. The use of KooN gates also allows for more flexible definition of
reliability requirements. Given the large number of sensors typically present
in a building, it is unlikely that the failure of just one sensor would cause the
entire system to fail.
The number of routers will be proportional to the number of monitored
floors in the building, with all routers connected to a strategically placed
switch. In the proposed architecture, the VANETs component is comprised of
a single sub-component: Road Side Units (RSUs). Typically, VANETs consist
of two basic elements: RSUs and Onboard Units (OBUs). However, due to
the complexities associated with defining the actual quantity of OBUs in a
smart city, they were not included in this study. The architectural planning of
RSUs is relatively straightforward as they are fixed, pre-established structures.
As with the sensors in the smart building component, it is not reasonable to
assume that the failure of a single RSU would cause the entire system to fail,
as RSUs are typically organized in a redundant manner.
The gate related to shared resources includes four macro-components: edge
server, hardware cloud, network, and power grid. The edge server is divided
into four sub-components: hardware (HW), operating system (OS), docker
(DK), and containers (CTs). The use of Docker was incorporated to more
accurately reflect modern and scalable architectures that utilize containers.
The container component includes a KooN gate with a set of N parallel
--- PAGE 20 ---
20 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Up State Down State
KooN 3 out of 5 cam. system down with fail >=3
System Up
System Up
System Down
Fig. 5: KooN example using cameras in up and down states.
containers. The cloud architecture, in terms of software, can vary depending
on the provider adopted. Therefore, the cloud component has been simplified
to consider only the hardware aspect. The network component encompasses all
wiredcommunicationinterconnectingthesmartcitynetwork.Lastly,thepower
grid component supplies power to the entire architecture under consideration.
Renewableenergysourcescanalsobeconsideredinasubsequentphase,however,
they are not included in this analysis due to the low failure rate of power grids.
Table2presentsthemeantimetofail(MTTF)andmeantimetorepair(MTTR)
for each component as extracted from literature sources [34, 43, 40, 19, 5].
6.1 Sensitivity Analysis
In this part of the work, we present a sensitivity analysis of the macro com-
ponents of the model: surveillance (SV), smart building (BU), VANET (VN),
edge server (ED), hw cloud (CL), network (NE) and power grid (PG). The
objective is to identify which component has the greatest impact on the avail-
ability metric. Sensitivity analysis measures the local effect of a given input
data on the output data. The main objective is to identify the weak links of
computer systems and, subsequently, to adopt a set of techniques to improve
such systems in different scenarios [11]. Sensitivity analysis can provide the
necessary security and present the results within the perspective established by
--- PAGE 21 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 21
Table 2: Model Parameters
Component MTTF MTTR
Camera (CA) 90000.00 1.00
Surveillance
Cell Tower (TO) 150000.00 5.00
Sensor (SS) 300000.00 1.00
Smart Building Router (RO) 480770.00 8.00
Switch (ST) 698220.00 8.00
Hardware (HW) 8760.00 1.67
Operating System (OS) 1667.00 0.25
Edge Server
Docker (DK) 2516.00 0.25
Container (CT) 1258.00 0.23
Power Grid 8757.00 4.80
Hardware Cloud 8760.00 1.60
RSU 500.00 2.00
Network 83220.00 12.00
the system administrators. There are various methods available for performing
sensitivity analysis, such as regression analysis, perturbation analysis (PA),
one-to-one variation, Monte Carlo simulation, parametric differential analysis,
correlationanalysis,andpercentagedifference.Thedecisionofwhichmethodto
useisachallengingstep,requiringtheconsiderationofavailablecomputational
resources and the characteristics of the addressed problems [12] [38].
The percentage difference method was chosen to perform the sensitivity
analysis of the fault tree model, as it is an approach that does not require the
use of a continuous domain for the input values of parameters. This process is
basedoncalculatingthepercentagedifferencewhenvaryinganinputparameter
from its minimum value to its maximum value. It is necessary to use the entire
range of possible values of each parameter in order to calculate the sensitivities
of the parameters, as outlined in Equation 8. The expression max Y(θ) and
min Y(θ) represent the maximum and minimum output values, respectively,
as measured by varying the parameter θ over a range of its n possible values
of interest. If it is known that Y (θ) varies monotonically, only the extreme
values of θ (i.e., θ and θ ) need to be used to calculate max Y(θ) , min Y(θ)
1 n
and as a result S Y [16, 22].
θ
max{Y(θ)}−min{Y(θ)}
S {Y}= (8)
θ max{Y(θ)}
Wepresentthecalculationofthesensitivityindexbyvaryingoneparameter
over its design range. It is important to note that the values of the remaining
parameters are held constant during this calculation. This approach allows us
to isolate the effect of a single parameter on the overall system performance
and assess its relative importance. Additionally, it should be noted that in the
sensitivity analysis, a set of scenarios were considered with different values of
theremainingparameterstoensuretherobustnessoftheresults.Thesensitivity
index provides a measure of the relative importance of each design parameter
and allows the designer to prioritize design decisions.
--- PAGE 22 ---
22 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Table 3 presents the sensitivity indexes in descending order. Therefore,
the three most impacting components are: VANETs, edge server and smart
building. VANETs is the most influential component probably due to its low
MTTF compared to the other components.
Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis Result.
Parameter Sensitivity Index
MTTF VN 0.0258777602608578
MTTR VN 0.01331305761385408
MTTF BU 0.002206516444554778
MTTF ED 0.0016366888322117829
MTTR BU 0.0010814511382172705
MTTR ED 7.069677847551544E-4
MTTF SV 6.40961033860294E-4
MTTF PG 3.216745273348131E-4
MTTR PG 3.170190776072599E-4
MTTR SV 2.72584548561388E-4
MTTF CL 2.2045099731459627E-4
MTTR NE 1.0141813678947335E-4
MTTF NE 8.385117185474646E-5
MTTR CL 2.158935723395704E-5
Figure6presentstheparametersvariationforeacheminentcomponent.The
variation have considered increments and decrements of 25% from the baseline.
It is important to note that edge and smart building varies the availability
inside the range of 95%. However, the RSU MTTF goes from 92% to more
than 96%.
0.96
0.95
0.94
0.93
0.92
30 40 50 60 70
MTTF_VN
ytilibaliavA 0.97
Model 0.96
Baseline
Varied Parameter
1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
MTTR_VN
(a)RSUsMTTFVariation
ytilibaliavA 0.953
0.952
Model
Baseline
Varied Parameter 0.951
50 75 100 125 150
MTTF_ED
(b)RSUsMTTRVariation
ytilibaliavA
Model
Baseline
Varied Parameter
(c)EdgeMTTFVariation
0.9545
0.9540
0.9535
0.9530 0.2 0.3
MTTR_ED
ytilibaliavA
0.954
0.953
0.952
0.951
Model
Baseline
Varied Parameter 0.950
200 300 400
MTTF_BU
(d)EdgeMTTRVariation
ytilibaliavA
0.9550
0.9545
0.9540
Model 0.9535
Baseline
Varied Parameter
0.9530 0.50 0.75 1.00 1.25 1.50
MTTR_BU
(e)BuildingMTTFVariation
ytilibaliavA
Model
Baseline
Varied Parameter
(f)BuildingMTTRVariation
Fig. 6: Parameters Variation of Macro Components
--- PAGE 23 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 23
7 Case Studies
This section presents two case studies that aim to identify system availability
and reliability for the different parameters. The case studies focus on the five
KooN gates. Changing the KooN gate can represent two aspects: a change
in the failure requirement and a change in the number of available resources.
These two aspects were explored and described in the following sections.
7.1 Scenario One - Changing the Failure Requirement
The first aspect of the KooN gate change pertains to the variation of the
k factor, without altering the value of N. This variation indicates a change
in the failure requirements of that component. As the value of k increases,
the component becomes less likely to fail, as there will be more redundant
elements. In this scenario, three configurations of the KooN gates were applied,
as detailed in Table 4. The settings for the five components with a KooN
gate were changed: cameras, sensors, routers, RSUs, and containers. The total
capacity for each component was fixed, with 100 cameras, 1000 sensors, and 10
routers, RSUs, and containers. For the configurations C1, C2, and C3, three
different k values were adopted, respectively: k=1, k=N/2, and k=N.
Table 4: Configurations considering distinct K values.
Configurations
Components
C01 - 1 oo N C02 - N/2 oo N C03 - N oo N
Cameras 1outof100 50outof100 100outof100
Sensors 1outof1000 500outof1000 1000outof1000
Routers 1outof10 5outof10 10outof10
RSU 1outof10 5outof10 10outof10
Containers 1outof10 5outof10 10outof10
The first aspect of the KooN gate change is related to the variation in the
k factor (without changing N). This variation indicates a change in the failure
requirement of that component. As the k value increases, the system becomes
less likely to fail, as there will be more redundant elements. In this scenario,
three configurations of the KooN gates were applied, as detailed in Table 4.
The total capacity of the cameras, sensors, routers, RSUs, and containers
were fixed at 100, 1000, 10, respectively. The steady-state availability results
for these configurations are presented in Figure 7. Configuration C1 had an
availability of approximately 95.3%, while C2 and C3 had an availability of
approximately99.8%.ConfigurationC1canbeconsideredasaverydemanding
failure requirement, as the failure of just one out of a thousand sensors would
cause the system to fail. However, it serves to illustrate the ease of exploration
of the model. If a Service Level Agreement (SLA) with a target availability
of 98% is established, configurations C2 and C3 would meet this demand
--- PAGE 24 ---
24 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
equally. However, C3 is more fault-tolerant as it requires all elements to fail
for the system to enter a failed state. Therefore, it is important to consider the
reliability metric when defining an SLA.
1.00
0.98
0.96
0.94
C01 − 1 oo N C02 − N/2 oo N C03 − N oo N
Configuration
ytilibaliavA
etatS−ydaetS
Fig. 7: Scenario One - Variation of KooN observing availability.
The Figure 8 illustrates the results of the reliability analysis for the three
configurations of the KooN gates, C1, C2, and C3. The x-axis represents
the elapsed time since the system is considered active, with the simulation
considering a time of 2000 hours. It is evident that configuration C3 has better
reliabilitythanC2,whichinturnhasbetterreliabilitythanC1,forthemajority
of the time. At time zero, the system’s reliability is 100%, as the system has
not yet attempted to fail. As time progresses, reliability is diminished. Initially,
C2 and C3 are practically the same until 125 hours, after which they begin to
diverge. C1, with its high constraint, achieves zero reliability near 250 hours (a
little over a week). C2 reaches zero reliability after 500 hours, while C3 reaches
zero reliability only after 2000 hours (over two months).
The Figure 7 and 8 present the results of a sensitivity analysis performed
on the fault tree model using the percentage difference method. The analysis
aimed to identify the impact of varying the k factor of the KooN gates on
the availability and reliability of the system. The results demonstrate that
increasing the value of k, or the number of redundant elements, results in a
higher availability and reliability for the system. The study also highlighted
the importance of considering the time frame when defining Service Level
--- PAGE 25 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 25
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0 500 1000 1500 2000
Time
ytilibaileR
Configuration
C03 − N oo N
C02 − N/2 oo N
C01 − 1 oo N
Fig. 8: Scenario One - Variation of KooN observing reliability.
Agreements (SLAs) for reliability. As the results can vary greatly depending
on the time analyzed, it is important to carefully consider the consequences
of partial unavailability when defining SLAs with high k values. Additionally,
it is also important to take into account the maintenance of the system, as
high k values may not trigger corrective actions for individual failures and may
negatively affect the system’s performance.
7.2 Scenario Two - Changing the Quantity of Available Resources
The Vehicle Ad-hoc Network (VANET) was identified as the most significant
macro-component in the sensitivity analysis. In this case study, we focus on
the VANET component by altering the respective KooN gate. This scenario
involves variations in both the value of K and the value of N. It is important to
notethatwhenKisequaltoN,thereisonlyfailureifallelementsfail,referred
to as the ”maximized failure condition.” Additionally, it is worth noting that
N represents the number of available elements. In this scenario, we aim to
maintain the maximized failure condition by changing the number of available
devices (N) as outlined in Table 5. We simulated the increase in available Road
Side Units (RSUs) with three possible configurations.
As shown in Figure 9, the system’s availability as a whole for the variation
describedaboveisdepicted.Incomparisontothepreviousscenario,theimpact
on availability is relatively small as the configuration changes. With two
--- PAGE 26 ---
26 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Table 5: Configurations considering distinct K and N values for VANET com-
ponent.
Configuration
C1 C2 C3
KooN of RSU 2outof2 5outof5 10outof10
available RSUs, the availability is recorded as A = 99.8625885%. The C2 and
C3 settings have identical values: A=99.8641736%. There is, therefore, very
little difference in changing the settings for availability. However, the difference
represents an hour of downtime. Downtime is calculated using the equation D
=(1-A)×8760,whereAdenotesavailabilityand8760representsthenumber
of hours in a year. Although small, this one hour of downtime can potentially
result in traffic accidents.
0.99865
0.99864
0.99863
0.99862
0.99861
0.99860
C01 − 2 oo 2 C02 − 5 oo 5 C03 − 10 oo 10
Configurations
ytilibaliavA
etatS−ydaetS
Fig. 9: Availability changing K and N of RSU.
Figure 10 presents the results of the reliability analysis for the second case
study,consideringamaximumtimeof2000hours.Unlikeavailability,thethree
configurations exhibit differences in terms of reliability. Reliability is directly
proportional to the number of RSUs. Therefore, overall, the C3 configuration
has higher reliability than the C2 configuration, which in turn has higher
reliability than the C1 configuration. Starting from time zero, the C2 and C3
configurations are quite similar. However, from point 500h onwards, the lines
--- PAGE 27 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 27
begin to diverge. At the point of greatest distance (approximately 750h), the
C1 configuration has a reliability of 12%, the C2 configuration has a reliability
of 25%, and the C3 configuration has a reliability of 37%. The C1 and C3
configurations exhibit a significant difference for half of the analyzed time. The
lines converge only at point 2000h. Therefore, arbitrarily adding RSUs can be
an effective strategy for improving reliability, but it may not have a significant
impact on availability.
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0 500 1000 1500 2000
Time
ytilibaileR
Configuration
C1 − 2 oo 2
C2 − 5 oo 5
C3 − 10 oo 10
Fig. 10: Availability changing K and N of RSU.
7.3 Scenario Three - Changes Guided by Sensitivity Analysis
The design of smart city systems necessitates achieving minimum acceptable
levels of Mean Time to Failure (MTTF). Attaining specific MTTF values
in multi-component systems can be challenging. This scenario presents a
methodology based on the successive use of sensitivity analysis to identify
which components require modification to have the greatest impact on the
system. The nature of the change to be applied depends on the characteristics
of each component. Possible change options include the implementation of
redundancy directly to the component, incorporating redundant elements into
the infrastructure, or replacing an existing component with a more reliable one.
Figure 11 illustrates the actions taken to achieve a system MTTF of 500 hours.
--- PAGE 28 ---
28 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Configuration 1 - Sensitivity Configuration 2 -
Base Model Analiysis Add Hotstandby RSU
Configuration 3 -
Sensitivity Sensitivity
Add Redundant
Analiysis Analiysis
Container
Configuration 4 - Configuration 5 -
Sensitivity
Change sensor Add Redundant
Analiysis
MTTF Container
Fig. 11: Actions performed to achieve the minimum MTTF.
Initially, the MTTF of the base system was calculated as 80.72 hours. The
base model was then subjected to sensitivity analysis based on the general
system MTTF metric result. The outcome of this analysis can be observed
in column Configuration 1 of Table 6, where it is evident that the Road Side
Unit (RSU) is the most critical component. To improve this component, an
action was taken to add an RSU in hot-standby mode, meaning that each RSU
receives a redundant RSU as a secondary processing option.
A Continuous-Time Markov Chain (CTMC) model was developed to deter-
mine the MTTF of the RSU in hot-standby mode. Figure 12 illustrates the
CTMC model for the RSU. This model comprises four states (UU, UD, DU,
andDD)andutilizesafailurerateofλforthefailureofanRSUandarecovery
rate of µ for the recovery of an RSU. The failure rate of an RSU, represented
by λ, has a value of 1/500.00, and the repair rate of an RSU, represented by µ,
has a value of 1/2.00, as per the parameters outlined in Table 2. The UU state
represents the scenario where two RSUs from a single point are functioning
correctly and can only fail at the λ rate. The UD and DU states represent the
scenarioswhenoneRSUhasfailed,buttheotherremainsoperational,inwhich
--- PAGE 29 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 29
Table 6: MTTF sensitivity analysis with highest indexes colored in blue.
Parameter Configuration1 Configuration2 Configuration3 Configuration4
rsuMTTF 0.12953794 8.52E-05 2.06E-04 3.18E-04
ctMTTF 0.040002993 0.118845515 0.060952061 0.102774879
sensorMTTF 0.009643628 0.036647992 0.071397819 0.002071902
osMTTF 0.007715903 0.016740269 0.026970735 0.033861797
dckMTTF 0.005132598 0.011189549 0.018099929 0.022789887
cloudMTTF 0.001510418 0.003443205 0.005489943 0.007096034
powergridMTTF 0.001510096 0.003439918 0.005482019 0.007082858
hardwareMTTF 0.001472536 0.003205538 0.005185181 0.006527514
cameraMTTF 0.001334406 0.006006158 0.012952436 0.019616187
networkMTTF 1.59E-04 3.63E-04 5.79E-04 7.49E-04
celltowerMTTF 8.04E-05 1.84E-04 2.94E-04 3.82E-04
switchMTTF 1.74E-05 4.03E-05 6.52E-05 8.22E-05
routerMTTF 4.96E-07 2.69E-06 6.59E-06 1.03E-05
case, as the system is still operational, it can recover at the µ rate. The DD
state represents the scenario where both RSUs have failed, and the absorbing
state is used to determine the MTTF of this Hot-standby RSU configuration.
The MTTF value for the RSU configuration in this scenario is 84166.67
hours, which is significantly higher than using a single RSU at each point,
which is 500 hours. Incorporating this MTTF value into the system raised the
overall MTTF to 178.93 hours, which is significantly higher than the previous
value but still below the target stipulated in this use case. The Configuration
2 column of Table 6 presents the results of the new sensitivity analysis of
the last configuration, and it was identified that the container is the most
critical element. To address this, in addition to using the redundant RSU, it
was decided to add new containers, as this is an action that can be carried out
with relative ease and low cost. The Edge server received 14 new containers
in a KooN configuration. This change increased the MTTF to 298.77 hours,
but more changes were still needed to reach the desired goal. The sensitivity
analysis of the system with additional redundant containers, as outlined in
Configuration 3 of Table 6, identified that the sensors are the most critical
elements.
UD
λ λ
μ
UU DD
μ
λ λ
DU
Fig. 12: Hot-standby at the RSU.
--- PAGE 30 ---
30 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
The availability of sensors was improved by increasing its MTTF by 10%.
The outcome of this change resulted in an MTTF of 393.77 hours, which is still
insufficient to meet the minimum required value. The subsequent sensitivity
analysis of the entire system with this configuration can be found in Table
6 - Configuration 4. This result demonstrates that the increase in redundant
containers was not sufficient to stop it from being a significant factor in the
system’s MTTF. Therefore, it was determined that the containers required
a further increase in redundant components. Various quantities of containers
were tested, and it was observed that the change from 14 to 21 redundant
containers resulted in an MTTF of 505.29 hours, which exceeds the desired
value for the system.
Figure 13 illustrates the MTTF for each different configuration. Five con-
figurations were performed, resulting in an increase of the system’s MTTF
from 80.72 hours to 505.29 hours. As anticipated, the changes also impacted
the system’s reliability, which can be observed in the reliability graph shown
in Figure 14. The impact on reliability can be observed by examining the
impact of modifying the components with the highest sensitivity index in each
configuration on reliability. For example, the system reliability at 400 hours in
Configuration 1 is only 02%, while in Configuration 2, the reliability is 6.52%.
On the other hand, Configuration 3 increases the reliability to 27.93%. In
Configurations 4 and 5, the reliabilities are 45.09% and 53.37%, respectively.
Thiscasestudyillustratestheusefulnessofthemodelcombinedwiththeuseof
sequential sensitivity analyses to increase the MTTF and reliability of systems
with multiple components.
500
450
400
350
300
250
200
150
100
50
0
Configuration 1 Configuration 2 Configuration 3 Configuration 4 Configuration 5
Configuration
FTTM
Fig. 13: System MTTF.
--- PAGE 31 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 31
1.00
0.75
0.50
0.25
0.00
0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 1600 1800 2000
Time
ytilibaileR
Configuration
Configuration 1
Configuration 2
Configuration 3
Configuration 4
Configuration 5
Fig. 14: System MTTF.
7.4 Discussions and Insights
Complexity of System Architecture In this paper, we proposed a fault tree
model with a Markov chain for an architecture of a smart city to help system
administrators plan complex computing architectures. The model presented in
Figure3isahigh-levelrepresentationofthesystemandisintendedtoprovidean
overviewofthedifferentcomponentsandtheirinteractions.Itisnotintendedto
replaceexistingmethodologiesintheliteraturebutrathertoprovideadifferent
perspective on evaluating the dependability of smart city systems. Our goal in
this paper was to provide a broad and adaptable model to represent a smart
city with three macro-contexts, including smart building, VANET, and smart
surveillance. It is acknowledged that the model may appear over-simplistic
and may not consider certain aspects of communications redundancy, such as
multiple routes to reach the sink node/server. However, it is important to note
that the proposed model is not meant to be a detailed and specific model of
a single component or system, but rather a high-level representation of the
overall smart city architecture. The proposed model uses hierarchical modeling,
sequential sensitivity analysis, and KooN gates. The sequential sensitivity
analysis method allows for identifying the most important components of the
system in terms of their impact on dependability metrics, which can be useful
in making decisions regarding system design and configuration. The modeling
approach used in this paper is static and manual, which may be considered a
limitation. However, it is believed that this approach is suitable for the scope
of this work, which focuses on providing a high-level overview of the system
and its components.
--- PAGE 32 ---
32 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
Detailed Level of Quantification The results presented in the paper are based
on a set of assumptions and simplifications made to the system architecture,
such as the power grid and cloud infrastructure, in order to make the model
more manageable and computationally feasible. It is acknowledged that these
simplifications may have an impact on the results. In addition, an exponential
distributionwasusedtomodelthecomponents’failurerates,whichisacommon
choice in dependability analysis. However, it is acknowledged that different
types of distributions, such as Weibull or lognormal, may be more appropriate
for certain types of components. Further research will investigate the impact of
using different distribution types on the results and to provide a more realistic
baseline scenario. Our proposal advances the state-of-the-art by evaluating the
dependability of a smart city architecture from a broad perspective, and by
combining the use of fault tree models and Markov chains, with a hierarchical
modeling strategy and the use of KooN gates, as well as a new method called
sequential sensitivity analysis. The proposal presents a novel approach for
assessing the availability and reliability of a smart city system by combining
the use of fault tree models and Markov chains, with a hierarchical modeling
strategy and the use of KooN gates. Furthermore, the sequential sensitivity
analysis method allows for identifying the most important components of the
systemintermsoftheirimpactondependabilitymetrics.Thisisthefirstpaper
that addresses this strategy.
In this study, a Hierarchical Fault Tree (HFT) analysis was utilized to
modelthedependabilityofasmartcitysystem.TheHFTapproachmodelsthe
systemasatree-likestructure,withthetop-levelrepresentingtheoverallsystem
failure and lower levels representing the failures of individual components.
Fault Tree Analysis (FTA) is a method for identifying and analyzing the
combinationsofbasiceventsthatcanleadtosystem failure.The mathematical
representation of a fault tree is a Boolean function, and the probability of the
topeventcanbecalculatedusingtheprobabilityofbasiceventsandthelogical
operators connecting them. Additionally, this study utilized a new method
calledsequentialsensitivityanalysis(SSA)tooptimizethemetricsevaluatedby
the proposed models by identifying the system’s most important components.
Our proposed model is unique in its approach by combining the use of fault
tree models and Markov chains, a hierarchical modeling strategy, and the use
of KooN gates. In future work, we plan to investigate the impact of different
distribution types on the results, provide a more realistic baseline scenario,
conduct a performance analysis, and include additional components such as
onboard units of vehicles in VANETs to further improve the realism of our
model.
8 Conclusion
In this paper, we proposed a novel approach for assessing the availability
and reliability of a smart city system, utilizing a combination of a fault tree
model and a Markov chain. By investigating three inter-correlated macro-
--- PAGE 33 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 33
architectures, including smart building, VANET, and smart surveillance, we
were able to identify key factors that influence the total dependability of the
system. By applying the KooN paradigm and varying the failure requirements
of all components, we were able to conduct a sensitivity analysis to identify
the most impactful component of the entire system. Our results indicated that
the Road Side Unit (RSU) of the VANET macro-component had the greatest
impact on system dependability. By varying the number of available RSUs, we
were able to demonstrate that even small changes in configuration could result
inasignificantreductionindowntime.Thisisparticularlyimportantinthecase
of vehicle traffic control, where even one hour of downtime can be catastrophic.
Furthermore, by adopting the sequential sensitivity analysis, we were able to
significantly improve the system’s Mean Time to Failure (MTTF) from 80.72
hours to 505.29 hours. The case studies presented in this paper provide a
practicalguideforsystemadministratorstoapplyourmodelandassessvarious
configurations for a smart city architecture. Future work includes conducting
a performance analysis to evaluate the impact of component availability on
response time and throughput of the system. Additionally, other components
such as onboard units of vehicles in VANETs can be considered to further
improve the realism of the model.
9 Declarations
Ethical Approval Not applicable
Francisco Airton Silva (F.A.S.), Iure Fe (I.F.) (corresponding author)
are with Federal University of Piaui (UFPI), Picos, Piaui, Brazil E-mail:
faps,iure.fe@ufpi.edu.br Francisco Silva (F.S.) is with Federal University of
Maranhao - Brazil E-mail: fssilva@lsdi.ufma.br Tuan Anh Nguyen (T.A.N.) is
with Konkuk University - South Korea E-mail: anhnt2407@konkuk.ac.kr
Competing interests The authors have no relevant financial or non-financial
interests to disclose.
Authors’ contributions F.A.S. has managed the process as research leader.
F.A.S. and I.F. executed the research and wrote the paper. F.S. and T.A.N.
reviewed the manuscript.
Funding This research was partially supported by Basic Science Research
Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded
by the Ministry of Education (No. 2020R1A6A1A03046811).; This research
was supported by the Basic Science Research Program through the National
Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Ministry of Education
(2021R1A2C2094943)
Availability of data and materials Data sharing not applicable.
--- PAGE 34 ---
34 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
References
1. A. Abate, C. E. Budde, N. Cauchi, K. A. Hoque, and M. Stoelinga. As-
sessment of maintenance policies for smart buildings: application of formal
methods to fault maintenance trees. In European conference of the prog-
nostics and health management society, 2018.
2. H. Ahvenniemi, A. Huovila, I. Pinto-Seppa¨, and M. Airaksinen. What are
the differences between sustainable and smart cities? Cities, 60:234–245,
2017.
3. E. Andrade and B. Nogueira. Dependability evaluation of a disaster
recovery solution for iot infrastructures. The Journal of Supercomputing,
76(3):1828–1849, 2020.
4. E. Araujo, J. Dantas, R. Matos, P. Pereira, and P. Maciel. Dependability
evaluation of an iot system: A hierarchical modelling approach. In 2019
IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man and Cybernetics (SMC),
pages 2121–2126. IEEE, 2019.
5. G. Arau´jo, L. Rodrigues, K. Oliveira, I. F´e, R. Khan, and F. A. Silva.
Vehicular cloud computing networks: availability modelling and sensitivity
analysis. Int. J. Sens. Networks, 36(3):125–138, 2021.
6. S. Balamurugan, A. Ayyasamy, and K. S. Joseph. Enhanced petri nets
for traceability of food management using internet of things. Peer-to-Peer
Networking and Applications, 14(1):30–43, 2021.
7. R. E. Barlow and F. Proschan. Mathematical theory of reliability. SIAM,
1996.
8. C. A. Boano, K. Ro¨mer, R. Bloem, K. Witrisal, M. Baunach, and M. Horn.
Dependability for the internet of things—from dependable networking in
harshenvironmentstoaholisticviewondependability. e&iElektrotechnik
und Informationstechnik, 133(7):304–309, 2016.
9. G. Bolch, S. Greiner, H. De Meer, and K. S. Trivedi. Queueing networks
and Markov chains: modeling and performance evaluation with computer
science applications. John Wiley & Sons, 2006.
10. O.BoreikoandV.Teslyuk. Modelofdatacollectioncontrollerofautomated
processing systems for passenger traffic public transport ”smart” city
based on petri nets. In 2017 2nd International Conference on Advanced
Information and Communication Technologies (AICT),pages62–65.IEEE,
2017.
11. F.Campolongo, S.Tarantola,andA. Saltelli. Tacklingquantitativelylarge
dimensionalityproblems. Computer Physics Communication,117(1):75–85,
1999.
12. F.Campolongo,S.Tarantola,A.Saltelli,andM.Ratto. Sensitivityanalysis
in practice: a guide to assessing scientific models. John Wiley and Sons,
2004.
13. V.Cardellini,E.Casalicchio,K.R.L.J.C.Branco,J.C.Estrella,andF.J.
Monaco. Performance and dependability in service computing: Concepts,
techniques and. 2012.
--- PAGE 35 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 35
14. P.CardulloandR.Kitchin. Beinga‘citizen’inthesmartcity:Upanddown
the scaffold of smart citizen participation in dublin, ireland. GeoJournal,
84(1):1–13, 2019.
15. E. Cesario, F. Cicirelli, and C. Mastroianni. Distributed computation of
mobility patterns in a smart city environment. In European Conference on
Parallel Processing, pages 559–572. Springer, 2018.
16. R. de Souza Matos Ju´nior. Identification of Availability and Performance
Bottlenecks in Cloud Computing Systems: An Approach Based On Hier-
archical Models and Sensitivity Analysis. PhD thesis, Federal University
of Pernambuco, Center for Informatics, Graduate in Computer Science,
Recife, 2016.
17. J. Desdemoustier, N. Crutzen, and R. Giffinger. Municipalities’ under-
standing of the smart city concept: An exploratory analysis in belgium.
Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 142:129–141, 2019.
18. Earth Org. Top 7 Smart Cities in the World. https://tinyurl.com/
2s3wkkcv, 2022. Accessed: 2022-09-04.
19. I. Gonc¸alves, L. Rodrigues, F. A. Silva, T. A. Nguyen, D. Min, and J.-W.
Lee. Surveillance system in smart cities: a dependability evaluation based
on stochastic models. Electronics, 10(8):876, 2021.
20. B. R. Haverkort. Markovian models for performance and dependability
evaluation. In School organized by the European Educational Forum, pages
38–83. Springer, 2000.
21. B. R. Haverkort and A. M. H. Meeuwissen. Sensitivity and uncertainty
analysis of markov-reward models. IEEE Transactions on Reliability,
44(1):147–154, 1995.
22. F.HoffmanandR.Gardner. Evaluation of Uncertainties in Environmental
Radiological Assessment Models. Radiological Assessments, 1983.
23. S. Kabir. An overview of fault tree analysis and its application in model
baseddependabilityanalysis. ExpertSystemswithApplications,77:114–135,
2017.
24. V. Kharchenko, Y. Ponochovnyi, A.-S. Abdulmunem, and A. Boyarchuk.
Security and availability models for smart building automation systems.
International Journal of Computing, 16(4):194–202, 2017.
25. L. Kleinrock. Queueing systems, vol. 1: Theory, 1975, 1975.
26. A.Kolmogoroff. U¨berdieanalytischenmethodeninderwahrscheinlichkeit-
srechnung. Mathematische Annalen, 104:415–458, 1931.
27. I. Kroener. ’caught on camera’: The media representation of video surveil-
lance in relation to the 2005 london underground bombings. Surveillance
& Society, 11(1/2):121–133, 2013.
28. P.KulkarniandT.Farnham.Smartcitywirelessconnectivityconsiderations
andcostanalysis:Lessonslearntfromsmartwatercasestudies. Ieee Access,
4:660–672, 2016.
29. X.-X. Li, Y.-W. Zhu, and J. Wang. Efficient encrypted data comparison
through a hybrid method. Journal of Information Science & Engineering,
33(4), 2017.
--- PAGE 36 ---
36 FranciscoAirtonSilvaetal.
30. S. Lin, L. Kong, L. He, K. Guan, B. Ai, Z. Zhong, and C. Briso-Rodr´ıguez.
Finite-statemarkovmodelingforhigh-speedrailwayfadingchannels. IEEE
Antennas and Wireless Propagation Letters, 14:954–957, 2015.
31. P. Liu, L. Yang, Z. Gao, S. Li, and Y. Gao. Fault tree analysis combined
with quantitative analysis for high-speed railway accidents. Safety science,
79:344–357, 2015.
32. P. R. Maciel, K. S. Trivedi, R. Matias, and D. S. Kim. Dependability
modeling. InPerformanceanddependabilityinservicecomputing:concepts,
techniques and research directions, pages 53–97. IGI Global, 2012.
33. J. I. McCool. Probability and statistics with reliability, queuing and
computer science applications. Technometrics, 45(1):107, 2003.
34. C. Melo, J. Dantas, A. Oliveira, D. Oliveira, I. F´e, J. Araujo, R. Matos,
and P. Maciel. Availability models for hyper-converged cloud computing
infrastructures. In 2018 Annual IEEE International Systems Conference
(SysCon), pages 1–7. IEEE, 2018.
35. D. A. Menasce, V. A. Almeida, L. W. Dowdy, and L. Dowdy. Perfor-
mance by design: computer capacity planning by example. Prentice Hall
Professional, 2004.
36. T.A.Nguyen,I.Fe,C.Brito,V.K.Kaliappan,E.Choi,D.Min,J.W.Lee,
and F. A. Silva. Performability evaluation of load balancing and fail-over
strategies for medical information systems with edge/fog computing using
stochastic reward nets. Sensors, 21(18):6253, 2021.
37. E. Ojie and E. Pereira. Exploring dependability issues in iot applications.
InProceedingsoftheSecondInternationalConferenceonInternetofthings,
Data and Cloud Computing, pages 1–5, 2017.
38. F. Pianosi, K. Beven, J. Freer, J. Hall, J. Rougier, D. Stephenson, and
T. Wagener. Sensitivity analysis of environmental models: A systematic
review with practical workflow. Environmental Modelling and Software,
79:214–232, 2016.
39. L.Qi,M.Zhou,andZ.Ding. Real-timetrafficcamera-lightcontrolsystems
for intersections subject to accidents: A petri net approach. In 2013
IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, pages
1069–1074. IEEE, 2013.
40. L.Rodrigues,I.Gonc¸alves,I.F´e,P.T.Endo,andF.A.Silva. Performance
and availability evaluation of an smart hospital architecture. Computing,
103(10):2401–2435, 2021.
41. L. Rodrigues, F. Neto, G. Gon¸calves, A. Soares, and F. A. Silva. Perfor-
manceevaluationofsmartcooperativetrafficlightsinvanets. International
Journal of Computational Science and Engineering, 24(3):276–289, 2021.
42. B. Santos, A. Soares, T.-A. Nguyen, D.-K. Min, J.-W. Lee, and F.-A. Silva.
Iot sensor networks in smart buildings: A performance assessment using
queuing models. Sensors, 21(16):5660, 2021.
43. G. L. Santos, P. Takako Endo, M. F. Ferreira da Silva Lisboa Tigre,
L. G. Ferreira da Silva, D. Sadok, J. Kelner, and T. Lynn. Analyzing the
availability and performance of an e-health system integrated with edge,
fog and cloud infrastructures. Journal of Cloud Computing, 7(1):1–22,
--- PAGE 37 ---
TitleSuppressedDuetoExcessiveLength 37
2018.
44. B. Silva, R. Matos, G. Callou, J. Figueiredo, D. Oliveira, J. Ferreira,
J. Dantas, A. Lobo, V. Alves, and P. Maciel. Mercury: An integrated envi-
ronment for performance and dependability evaluation of general systems.
In Proceedings of industrial track at 45th dependable systems and networks
conference, DSN, 2015.
45. F. A. Silva, C. Brito, G. Arau´jo, I. F´e, M. Tyan, J.-W. Lee, T. A. Nguyen,
andP.R.M.Maciel. Model-drivenimpactquantificationofenergyresource
redundancy and server rejuvenation on the dependability of medical sensor
networks in smart hospitals. Sensors, 22(4):1595, 2022.
46. F. A. Silva, T. A. Nguyen, I. F´e, C. Brito, D. Min, and J.-W. Lee. Perfor-
manceevaluationofaninternetofhealthcarethingsformedicalmonitoring
using m/m/c/k queuing models. IEEE Access, 9:55271–55283, 2021.
47. I. Silva, R. Leandro, D. Macedo, and L. A. Guedes. A dependability evalu-
ation tool for the internet of things. Computers & Electrical Engineering,
39(7):2005–2018, 2013.
48. T. Singh, A. Solanki, S. K. Sharma, A. Nayyar, and A. Paul. A decade
review on smart cities: Paradigms, challenges and opportunities. IEEE
Access, 2022.
49. C.Victor,T.A.Nguyen,L.A.Silva,E.Andrade,G.L.Santos,D.Min,J.W.
Lee, and F. A. Silva. Performability assessment and sensitivity analysis
of a home automation system. In 2021 IEEE/ACM 25th International
SymposiumonDistributedSimulationandRealTimeApplications(DS-RT),
pages 1–4. IEEE, 2021.
50. Worldometers. Worldometers. World Population Forecast. https://www.
worldometers.info, 2022. Accessed: 2022-09-04.